documentation/api/database/database-local-usage.md, before:

# Overview

This document describes how you can access and use your local DB.

## Connecting to the DB

### UI

There are many different programs you can use to connect to your DB, for example: [pgAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org/).

Steps:
1. Make sure your local DB is running, you can start it up by doing `make init-db` which will handle starting + running initial DB migrations
2. Open your program for connecting to the DB, and add the connection parameters as shown below

![Local DB Connection Parameters](../images/local-db-connection.png)

Connection parameters for the database can be found in [local.env](../../api/local.env) including the password.

### CLI

If you have `psql` installed locally, you can also access the DB by running `psql -h localhost -d app -U app` which will require you enter the password afterwards.

For example:
![Local DB CLI](../images/local-db-cli.png)

## Seeding the DB

You can populate our opportunity data by running: `make db-seed-local` when you have the DB running.

This script currently creates 25 new opportunities each time you run it. In the future, as we expand the amount of data we support, we'll
add more options and data to the DB, but this should give a rough set of data to work with.

Commit message:

[Issue #1455] Implement logic for query box in the search API (#1514)
## Summary
Fixes #1455

### Time to review: __10 mins__

## Changes proposed
Implements logic for the query field in the search API

Updated the seed script to allow you to generate more opportunities
locally

## Context for reviewers
This logic is deliberately very, very simple at the moment. It basically
just does a text contains check across several columns. This is the most
naive approach, and it is expected that if you tried to search two
separate words at the same time, you probably won't get any results.

A few options we may consider later (depending on the level of effort we
want to put into a non-search-index approach):
- Postgres text search / tsvectors:
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/textsearch.html
- Postgres text similarity:
https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/pgtrgm.html

## Additional information
The `ids` function I added for the tests was because there are a lot of
tests and when test `16` fails, its really hard to figure out which one
that is. Now it outputs the request+expected results:
![Screenshot 2024-03-21 at 10 47 34
AM](https://github.com/HHS/simpler-grants-gov/assets/46358556/a7732375-00a8-4e4f-8e16-c00114a80342)

---------

Co-authored-by: nava-platform-bot <platform-admins@navapbc.com>

documentation/api/database/database-local-usage.md, after:

# Overview

This document describes how you can access and use your local DB.

## Connecting to the DB

### UI

There are many different programs you can use to connect to your DB, for example: [pgAdmin](https://www.pgadmin.org/).

Steps:
1. Make sure your local DB is running, you can start it up by doing `make init-db` which will handle starting + running initial DB migrations
2. Open your program for connecting to the DB, and add the connection parameters as shown below

![Local DB Connection Parameters](../images/local-db-connection.png)

Connection parameters for the database can be found in [local.env](../../api/local.env) including the password.

### CLI

If you have `psql` installed locally, you can also access the DB by running `psql -h localhost -d app -U app` which will require you enter the password afterwards.

For example:
![Local DB CLI](../images/local-db-cli.png)

## Seeding the DB

You can populate our opportunity data by running: `make db-seed-local` when you have the DB running.

This script currently creates a few dozen opportunities each time you run it in various scenarios (differing opportunity statuses, titles, etc.).

If you require a large amount of data locally, you can run `make db-seed-local args="--iterations 5"` setting the iterations count to your desired number.
This effectively behaves like running the script multiple times in succession, and creates that many batches of opportunities.
