---
description: Understand some of the key acronyms and terms we use on the project.
---

# 📖 Terminology

## Federal abbreviations

The following acronyms represent abbreviations of federal stakeholder groups and concepts related to the grants process.

<table><thead><tr><th width="215.5">Term</th><th>Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>FACE</td><td><strong>F</strong>inancial <strong>A</strong>ssistance <strong>C</strong>ommittee for <strong>E</strong>-Governance — various federal agencies who all do grantmaking</td></tr><tr><td>ECGAP</td><td><strong>E</strong>xecutive <strong>C</strong>ommittee on <strong>G</strong>rants <strong>A</strong>dministration <strong>P</strong>olicy</td></tr><tr><td>CGMOs</td><td><strong>C</strong>ouncil of <strong>G</strong>rants <strong>M</strong>anagement <strong>O</strong>fficers — various federal agencies who all do grantmaking</td></tr><tr><td>NOFO</td><td><strong>N</strong>otice <strong>o</strong>f <strong>F</strong>unding <strong>O</strong>pportunity — also called "grant announcements" </td></tr><tr><td>S2S (Grantors and Applicants)</td><td><p><strong>S</strong>ystem to <strong>S</strong>ystem - Grants.gov provides an extensive list of web services for Applicants and Agencies to perform the Find and Apply functions using our System-to-System (S2S) interface.</p><p></p><p>Applicants and grantor agencies typically integrate the Grants.gov web services into their existing grant management systems to provide a seamless user interface to their grants staff.</p></td></tr><tr><td>FDP</td><td><a href="https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/federal-demonstration-partnership#sectionContact"><strong>F</strong>ederal <strong>D</strong>emonstrate <strong>G</strong>roup</a> </td></tr><tr><td>ISSO</td><td><strong>I</strong>nformation <strong>S</strong>ystem <strong>S</strong>ecurity <strong>O</strong>fficer</td></tr><tr><td>SSP</td><td><strong>S</strong>ystem <strong>S</strong>ecurity <strong>P</strong>lan – a series of documentation that describe the security controls we have or plan to implement to secure our production software system.</td></tr><tr><td>ATO</td><td><strong>A</strong>uthority <strong>t</strong>o <strong>O</strong>perate - a status that approves an IT system for use in a particular organization.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Technical terms

The following terms we commonly use to describe our work on the codebase and other technical aspects of the project.

<table><thead><tr><th width="187">Term</th><th>Definition</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Code repository</td><td>A set of folders that contain all of the code needed to build, run, and host a piece of software (or other technical tools). Sometimes used interchangeably with "codebase".</td></tr><tr><td>Version control</td><td>A mechanism for storing current version of a codebase as well as the history of changes made to that code.</td></tr><tr><td>Git</td><td>The most commonly used system for version control.</td></tr><tr><td>GitHub</td><td>A software platform that lets users store and host code repositories that are version controlled with git. It also offers a series of other tools that help teams plan and manage work related to their codebase.</td></tr><tr><td>Issue</td><td>GitHub's way of tracking tasks or units of work that need to be completed within a project. <strong>Note:</strong> An "issue" doesn't necessarily represent something that is "wrong" with the codebase. It could be a new feature or piece of functionality.</td></tr><tr><td>Bug</td><td>Something wrong with codebase that causes unexpected behavior, and requires "debugging" to identify and fix the issue.</td></tr><tr><td>Pull request</td><td>Sometimes abbreviated to "PR", a pull request is a way to ask project maintainers to review and accept changes to the codebase. These changes might include new features or bug fixes.</td></tr><tr><td>Sprint</td><td>A specific period of time (commonly two weeks) during which a team works on a defined set of tasks and aims to deliver new functionality.</td></tr><tr><td>100k deliverable</td><td>Describes major product work streams at a 100,000 foot view, which aim to deliver a set of related features over a multi-year timeline, e.g. "Improved discovery".</td></tr><tr><td>30k deliverable</td><td>Describes major product features at a 30,00 foot view, which aim to deliver new or improved functionality to users over a multi-month timeline, e.g. "Static site public launch".</td></tr><tr><td>10k deliverable</td><td>Describes a group of related tasks at a 10,000 foot view, which aim to deliver functionality necessary for a given 30k deliverable over a multi-sprint period, e.g. "Static site public launch - content updates."</td></tr></tbody></table>

## Change log

Major updates to the content of this page will be added here.

<table><thead><tr><th>Date</th><th width="246">Update</th><th>Notes</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>2/12/2024</td><td>Initial Content</td><td>Updated with Initial content</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
