documentation/infra/set-up-database.md, before:

# Set up database

The database setup process will:

1. Configure and deploy an application database cluster using [Amazon Aurora Serverless V2](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/serverless/)
2. Create a [PostgreSQL schema](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-schemas.html) `app` to contain tables used by the application.
3. Create an IAM policy that allows IAM roles with that policy attached to [connect to the database using IAM authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Connecting.html)
4. Create an [AWS Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html), the "role manager", for provisioning the [PostgreSQL database users](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.0/user-manag.html) that will be used by the application service and by the migrations task.
5. Invoke the role manager function to create the `app` and `migrator` Postgres users.

## Requirements

Before setting up the database you'll need to have:

1. [Set up the AWS account](./set-up-aws-account.md)
2. pip installed (pip is needed to download dependencies for the role manager Lambda function)

## 1. Configure backend

To create the tfbackend file for the new application environment, run

```bash
make infra-configure-app-database APP_NAME=<APP_NAME> ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

`APP_NAME` needs to be the name of the application folder within the `infra` folder. By default, this is `app`.
`ENVIRONMENT` needs to be the name of the environment you are creating. This will create a file called `<ENVIRONMENT>.s3.tfbackend` in the `infra/app/service` module directory.

## 2. Create database resources

Now run the following commands to create the resources. Review the terraform before confirming "yes" to apply the changes. This can take over 5 minutes.

```bash
make infra-update-app-database APP_NAME=app ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

## 3. Create Postgres users

Trigger the role manager Lambda function that was created in the previous step in order to create the application and migrator Postgres users.

```bash
make infra-update-app-database-roles APP_NAME=app ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

The Lambda function's response should describe the resulting PostgreSQL roles and groups that are configured in the database. It should look like a minified version of the following:

```json
{
  "roles": [
    "postgres",
    "migrator",
    "app"
  ],
  "roles_with_groups": {
    "rds_superuser": "rds_password",
    "pg_monitor": "pg_read_all_settings,pg_read_all_stats,pg_stat_scan_tables",
    "postgres": "rds_superuser",
    "app": "rds_iam",
    "migrator": "rds_iam"
  },
  "schema_privileges": {
    "public": "{postgres=UC/postgres,=UC/postgres}",
    "app": "{migrator=UC/migrator,app=U/migrator}"
  }
}
```

### Important note on Postgres table permissions

Before creating migrations that create tables, first create a migration that includes the following SQL command (or equivalent if your migrations are written in a general purpose programming language):

```sql
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES GRANT ALL ON TABLES TO app
```

This will cause all future tables created by the `migrator` user to automatically be accessible by the `app` user. See the [Postgres docs on ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-alterdefaultprivileges.html) for more info. As an example see the example app's migrations file [migrations.sql](/app/migrations.sql).

Why is this needed? The reason is because the `migrator` role will be used by the migration task to run database migrations (creating tables, altering tables, etc.), while the `app` role will be used by the web service to access the database. Moreover, in Postgres, new tables won't automatically be accessible by roles other than the creator unless specifically granted, even if those other roles have usage access to the schema that the tables are created in. In other words if the `migrator` user created a new table `foo` in the `app` schema, the `app` user will not have automatically be able to access it by default.

## Set up application environments

Once you set up the deployment process, you can proceed to [set up the application service](./set-up-app-env.md)

Commit message:

Pull updated documentation, what a pain. Links that are app specific all link to frontend for reasons.

documentation/infra/set-up-database.md, after:

# Set up database

The database setup process will:

1. Configure and deploy an application database cluster using [Amazon Aurora Serverless V2](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/serverless/)
2. Create a [PostgreSQL schema](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-schemas.html) `app` to contain tables used by the application.
3. Create an IAM policy that allows IAM roles with that policy attached to [connect to the database using IAM authentication](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/UsingWithRDS.IAMDBAuth.Connecting.html)
4. Create an [AWS Lambda function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/welcome.html), the "role manager", for provisioning the [PostgreSQL database users](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.0/user-manag.html) that will be used by the application service and by the migrations task.
5. Invoke the role manager function to create the `app` and `migrator` Postgres users.

## Requirements

Before setting up the database you'll need to have:

1. [Set up the AWS account](./set-up-aws-account.md)
2. pip installed (pip is needed to download dependencies for the role manager Lambda function)

## 1. Configure backend

To create the tfbackend file for the new application environment, run

```bash
make infra-configure-app-database APP_NAME=<APP_NAME> ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

`APP_NAME` needs to be the name of the application folder within the `infra` folder. By default, this is `app`.
`ENVIRONMENT` needs to be the name of the environment you are creating. This will create a file called `<ENVIRONMENT>.s3.tfbackend` in the `infra/app/service` module directory.

## 2. Create database resources

Now run the following commands to create the resources. Review the terraform before confirming "yes" to apply the changes. This can take over 5 minutes.

```bash
make infra-update-app-database APP_NAME=app ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

## 3. Create Postgres users

Trigger the role manager Lambda function that was created in the previous step in order to create the application and migrator Postgres users.

```bash
make infra-update-app-database-roles APP_NAME=app ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

The Lambda function's response should describe the resulting PostgreSQL roles and groups that are configured in the database. It should look like a minified version of the following:

```json
{
  "roles": ["postgres", "migrator", "app"],
  "roles_with_groups": {
    "rds_superuser": "rds_password",
    "pg_monitor": "pg_read_all_settings,pg_read_all_stats,pg_stat_scan_tables",
    "postgres": "rds_superuser",
    "app": "rds_iam",
    "migrator": "rds_iam"
  },
  "schema_privileges": {
    "public": "{postgres=UC/postgres,=UC/postgres}",
    "app": "{migrator=UC/migrator,app=U/migrator}"
  }
}
```

### Important note on Postgres table permissions

Before creating migrations that create tables, first create a migration that includes the following SQL command (or equivalent if your migrations are written in a general purpose programming language):

```sql
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES GRANT ALL ON TABLES TO app
```

This will cause all future tables created by the `migrator` user to automatically be accessible by the `app` user. See the [Postgres docs on ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-alterdefaultprivileges.html) for more info.

Why is this needed? The reason is because the `migrator` role will be used by the migration task to run database migrations (creating tables, altering tables, etc.), while the `app` role will be used by the web service to access the database. Moreover, in Postgres, new tables won't automatically be accessible by roles other than the creator unless specifically granted, even if those other roles have usage access to the schema that the tables are created in. In other words if the `migrator` user created a new table `foo` in the `app` schema, the `app` user will not have automatically be able to access it by default.

## 4. Check that database roles have been configured properly

```bash
make infra-check-app-database-roles APP_NAME=app ENVIRONMENT=<ENVIRONMENT>
```

## Set up application environments

Once you set up the deployment process, you can proceed to [set up the application service](./set-up-app-env.md)
