documentation/decisions/adr/0002-wiki-platform.md, before:

# Communications Tooling: Wiki Platform

- **Status:** Draft
- **Last Modified:** 2023-06-15 <!-- REQUIRED -->
- **Related Issue:** [#{issue number}](https://github.com/HHS/grants-api/issues) <!-- RECOMMENDED -->
- **Deciders:** {list everyone involved in the decision} <!-- OPTIONAL -->
- **Tags:** {space and/or comma separated list of tags} <!-- OPTIONAL -->

## Context and Problem Statement

The [communications platform milestone](milestone) identifies a series of platforms through which the Grants API project needs to engage both internal and external stakeholders. One of these platforms is a wiki for storing notes, documents, and other content about the project. Ideally we would select a platform that balances ease of use and flexibility with the cost of implementing and maintaining the wiki.

The goal of this ADR is to evaluate a series of potential wiki platforms and determine which one best fits the needs and objectives of this project based on the decision criteria outlined below.

## Decision Drivers <!-- RECOMMENDED -->

#### Must Have

- **Usability:** Non-technical users should be able to access and create content with minimal training or guidance.
- **Content Review:** Collaborators should be able to review and edit draft content before those changes are published.
- **Version History:** Editors should be able to see and restore previous versions of a given page.
- **Multi-Media:** The platform should support multiple types of media (e.g. videos, images, file uploads, tables, diagrams) with minimal configuration.
- **Internationalization (i18n):** The platform should provide support for displaying content in multiple languages.
- **Web Analytics:** The platform should provide support for tracking site usage and other web analytics.
- **Onboarding Costs:** Onboarding new members to the platform should be relatively inexpensive, both in terms of staff time/resources and direct costs (e.g. licensing fees).
- **Maintenance Costs:** It should not be prohibitively expensive to maintain the wiki, both in terms of staff time/resources and direct costs (e.g. hosting fees).

#### Nice to Have

- **External Contributions:** Members of the public should be able to suggest changes to wiki content and internal stakeholders should be able to review those contributions before they are published.
- **Data Access:** Content generated and stored in the wiki should be accessible outside of the wiki platform, either through syncing content to an HHS owned repository or through an official API.
- **Open Source:** The tool used to manage and host the wiki content should be open source, if possible.

## Options Considered

- [Confluence](confluence)
- [Notion](notion)
- [GitHub Wiki](gh-wiki)
- [GitBook](gitbook)
- [WikiJS](wiki-js)
- Git-based Headless CMS (e.g. [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap) and [Tina.io](git-cms-tina))
- API-based Headless CMS (e.g. [Strapi](strapi) and [Directus](directus))

## Decision Outcome <!-- REQUIRED -->

Chosen option: "{option 1}", because {justification. e.g., only option which meets k.o. criterion decision driver | which satisfies x condition | ... }.

### Positive Consequences <!-- OPTIONAL -->

- {e.g., improved performance on quality metric, new capability enabled, ...}
- ...

### Negative Consequences <!-- OPTIONAL -->

- {e.g., decreased performance on quality metric, risk, follow-up decisions required, ...}
- ...

## Pros and Cons of the Options <!-- OPTIONAL -->

### Confluence

[Confluence](confluence) is a Software as a Service (SaaS) documentation and collaboration tool offered by Atlassian that organizes content into "spaces" and offers a series of templates and components that can be used to create custom documentation for internal and external stakeholders.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** [$5.75 (standard) or $11 (premium) per user per month](confluence-pricing)
- **Content Review:** Supported through drafts, not enforceable
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Limited third party plugins for automating translation
- **Web Analytics:** [Google Analytics plugin](confluence-ga) available, also native analytics with premium tier
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **External Contributions:** Only supported in public spaces (without review)

#### Pros

- Relatively user friendly for non-technical users
- Supports a wide variety of media and page content
- Supports drafts, which allow edits to be made without publishing
- Supports page history and comparison of previous versions
- Limited support for public pages and spaces
- Minimimal ongoing maintenance costs due to SaaS hosting
- Most affordable per user cost for a given tier of features

#### Cons

- Does not support a formal review process for drafts before they can be published
- Supports fewer content types than Notion, especially in terms of structured data
- Content can only be made public at the level of an individual page or an entire space
- Content API is limited in capability and less intuitive than Notion API
- No direct support for internationalization and localization
- Closed source proprietary tool
- Data is controlled by Confluence, only accessible via API

### Notion

[Notion](notion) is a Software as a Service (SaaS) documentation and collaboration tool that also allows users to add structured and semi-structured content to pages. Because Notion offers a fully-featured API for reading and managing content, it also has a robust set of community integrations that extend Notion's core functionality.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** [$8 (pro) or $15(business) per user per month](notion-pricing)
- **Content Review:** Not supported
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Third-party beta plugin for translation
- **Web Analytics:** TODO
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **External Contributions:** Supported in app (without review)

#### Pros

- Relatively user friendly for non-technical users
- Allows publishing pages to the web for external user access
- Supports the widest variety of page content and media
- Supports public comments and edits in the app
- Minimimal ongoing maintenance costs due to SaaS hosting
- Exposes wiki content via an API
- Robust plugin and add-on community

#### Cons

- Slightly more complicated interface than Confluence
- Pages published to the web aren't organized as clearly as public pages in GitBook
- No content review process, all changes and comments are published automatically
- No direct support for internationalization and localization
- Page history is limited to 30 (pro) or 90 (business) days
- Closed source proprietary tool
- Data is controlled by Notion, only accessible via API

### GitHub Wiki

[GitHub Wiki](gh-wiki) is a free feature for public repositories that allows maintainers of the repository to host documents and other content that isn't stored directly within the repository itself.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** Free for public repositories
- **Content Review:** TODO
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** TODO
- **Web Analytics:** TODO
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **Data Access:** TODO

#### Pros

- TODO

#### Cons

- TODO

### GitBook

[GitBook](gitbook) is a Software as a Service (SaaS) platform for creating and managing public documentation for a project. GitBook prioritizes version control and collaboration by offering first class support for reviewing and merging content changes. It has become a common documentation and wiki tool for many open source projects.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** [Free (open source projects)](gitbook-oss) or [$6.70 (plus) per user per month](gitbook-pricing)
- **I18n:** Native support with [page collections and variants](gitbook-i18n)
- **Web Analytics:** [Google Analytics integration](gitbook-ga) available
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary

#### Pros

- Relatively friendly for non-technical users
- Most robust content review process across all wikis, enforceable on a page-by-page basis
- Public spaces and pages are well organized and searchable
- Supports a wide variety of media and content types
- Supports Google Analytics integration as well as limited native analytics
- Supports external contributions through GitHub PRs
- Supports beginning of type page history and version comparison
- Provides native support for itnernationalization across all pages
- Minimimal ongoing maintenance costs due to SaaS hosting
- Exposes limited API for content and space management
- Data can be synced to GitHub repo owned by HHS

#### Cons

- Slightly more complicated interface than Notion or Confluence
- Supports fewer content types than Notion, especially in terms of structured data
- Content API is limited in capability and less intuitive than Notion API
- External users cannot directly comment or suggest changes in the app
- Native web analytics are less robust than Confluence or Notion
- More expensive than Confluence for similar feature set

### Git-based Headless CMS

A "headless" CMS separates the creation and management of web content from the format in which it's displayed for external users. This is in contrast to traditional content management systems like Drupal or WordPress. Some headless CMS tools (e.g. [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap) and [Tina.io](git-cms-tina)) use a git-based version control system like GitHub as the backend for storing content generated within the CMS. This file-based content is then rendered as a static site with a Static Site Generator (SSG) like Next.js or Gatsby

#### Details

- **Hosting:** Self-hosted
- **Pricing:** Cost of self hosting
- **Content Review:** TODO
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Depends on static site generator (e.g. [Next.js i18n routing](next-i18n))
- **Web Analytics:** Google analytics must be manually added to the resulting website
- **Open Source Status:** Open Source options (e.g. [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap) and [Tina.io](git-cms-tina))
- **External Contributions:** Supported through GitHub

#### Pros

- TODO

#### Cons

- TODO

### API-based Headless CMS

A "headless" CMS separates the creation and management of web content from the format in which it's displayed for external users. This is in contrast to traditional content management systems like Drupal or WordPress. Some headless CMS tools (e.g. [Strapi](strapi) and [Directus](directus)) use a database as the backend for storing content generated within the CMS and expose this content via an API so that it can be rendered as a static site with a Static Site Generator (SSG) like Next.js or Gatsby.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** Self-hosted or SaaS
- **Pricing:** Free for self-hosted ([Strapi](strapi-pricing-self)) or $99/mo for SaaS ([Strapi](strapi-pricing-cloud) and [Directus](directus-pricing-cloud))
- **Content Review:** TODO
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Depends on static site generator (e.g. [Next.js i18n routing](next-i18n))
- **Web Analytics:** Google analytics must be manually added to the resulting website
- **Open Source Status:** Open Source options (e.g. [Strapi](strapi) and [Directus](directus))
- **External Contributions:** TODO

#### Pros

- TODO

#### Cons

- TODO

## Links <!-- OPTIONAL -->

- [Comms Tooling Milestone](milestone)
- [Confluence](confluence)
  - [Confluence Pricing](confluence-pricing)
  - [Confluence Permissions](confluence-permissions)
  - [Confluence Google Analytics](confluence-ga)
  - [Confluence Public Spaces](confluence-public-spaces)
  - [Confluence Public Pages](confluence-public-pages)
- [Notion](notion)
  - [Notion Pricing](notion-pricing)
  - [Notion Internationalization](notion-i18n)
  - [Notion Pricing](notion-pricing)
  - [Notion Internationalization](notion-i18n)
- [GitHub Wiki](gh-wiki)
- [GitBook](gitbook)
  - [GitBook Pricing](gitbook-pricing)
  - [GitBook Open Source Pricing](gitbook-oss)
  - [GitBook Internationalization](gitbook-i18n)
  - [GitBook Google Analytics](gitbook-ga)
- [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap)
- [Tina CMS](git-cms-tina)
- [Next Internatioanlization](next-i18n)
- [Strapi](strapi)
  - [Strapi Cloud Pricing](strapi-pricing-cloud)
  - [Strapi Self Hosted Pricing](strapi-pricing-self)
- [Directus](directus)
  - [Directus Cloud Pricing](directus-pricing-cloud)

[milestone]: ../milestones/individual_milestones/communication_platforms.md
<!-- Confluence links -->
[confluence]: https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence
[confluence-pricing]: https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/pricing
[confluence-public-spaces]: https://confluence.atlassian.com/doc/make-a-space-public-829076202.html
[confluence-public-pages]: https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/share-content-externally-with-public-links/
[confluence-ga]: https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1216936/google-analytics-in-confluence?tab=pricing&hosting=cloud
[confluence-permissions]: https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Confluence-questions/Let-users-to-edit-but-restrict-for-publishing-changes-without/qaq-p/945993
<!-- Notion links -->
[notion]: https://www.notion.so
[notion-pricing]: https://www.notion.so/pricing
[notion-i18n]: https://store.crowdin.com/notion
<!-- GitHub Wiki links -->
[gh-wiki]: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/documenting-your-project-with-wikis/about-wikis
<!-- GitBook links -->
[gitbook]: https://www.gitbook.com/
[gitbook-pricing]: https://www.gitbook.com/pricing
[gitbook-oss]: https://docs.gitbook.com/account-management/plans/apply-for-the-non-profit-open-source-plan#criteria-for-open-source-projects
[gitbook-i18n]: https://docs.gitbook.com/publishing/share/collection-publishing
[gitbook-ga]: https://docs.gitbook.com/product-tour/integrations/google-analytics/configure
<!-- Wiki.js links -->
[wiki-js]: https://js.wiki/
<!-- Git-based CMS links -->
[git-cms-decap]: https://decapcms.org/
[git-cms-tina]: https://tina.io/
[next-i18n]: https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization
<!-- API-based CMS links -->
[strapi]: https://strapi.io
[strapi-pricing-cloud]: https://strapi.io/pricing-cloud
[strapi-pricing-self]: https://strapi.io/pricing-self-hosted
[directus]: https://directus.io
[directus-pricing-cloud]: https://directus.io/pricing/cloud/

Commit message:

feat(adr): Adds decision drivers to Wiki Platform
Adds the following decision drivers to the Wiki Platform ADR:
- Public Access
- Authority to Operate
- Machine Readability

documentation/decisions/adr/0002-wiki-platform.md, after:

# Communications Tooling: Wiki Platform

- **Status:** Draft
- **Last Modified:** 2023-06-15 <!-- REQUIRED -->
- **Related Issue:** [#{issue number}](https://github.com/HHS/grants-api/issues) <!-- RECOMMENDED -->
- **Deciders:** {list everyone involved in the decision} <!-- OPTIONAL -->
- **Tags:** {space and/or comma separated list of tags} <!-- OPTIONAL -->

## Context and Problem Statement

The [communications platform milestone](milestone) identifies a series of platforms through which the Grants API project needs to engage both internal and external stakeholders. One of these platforms is a wiki for storing notes, documents, and other content about the project. Ideally we would select a platform that balances ease of use and flexibility with the cost of implementing and maintaining the wiki.

The goal of this ADR is to evaluate a series of potential wiki platforms and determine which one best fits the needs and objectives of this project based on the decision criteria outlined below.

## Decision Drivers <!-- RECOMMENDED -->

#### Must Have

- **Usability:** Non-technical users should be able to access and create content with minimal training or guidance.
- **Public Access:** Members of the public should be able to read public documentation in the wiki without needing to sign up or login to a service.
- **Content Review:** Collaborators should be able to review and edit draft content before those changes are published.
- **Version History:** Editors should be able to see and restore previous versions of a given page.
- **Multi-Media:** The platform should support multiple types of media (e.g. videos, images, file uploads, tables, diagrams) with minimal configuration.
- **Internationalization (i18n):** The platform should provide support for displaying content in multiple languages.
- **Web Analytics:** The platform should provide support for tracking site usage and other web analytics.
- **Onboarding Costs:** Onboarding new members to the platform should be relatively inexpensive, both in terms of staff time/resources and direct costs (e.g. licensing fees).
- **Maintenance Costs:** It should not be prohibitively expensive to maintain the wiki, both in terms of staff time/resources and direct costs (e.g. hosting fees).
- **Authority to Operate (ATO):** The platform already must be authorized under the Grants.gov ATO (Authority to Operate) or ATO coverage must be requested.

#### Nice to Have

- **External Contributions:** Members of the public should be able to suggest changes to wiki content and internal stakeholders should be able to review those contributions before they are published.
- **Data Access:** Content generated and stored in the wiki should be accessible outside of the wiki platform, either through syncing content to an HHS owned repository or through an official API.
- **Machine Readability:** The wiki platform should also support storing and exposing content in a machine-readable format so that certain types structured data can be managed within and accessed from the wiki without parsing.
- **Open Source:** The tool used to manage and host the wiki content should be open source, if possible.

## Options Considered

- [Confluence](confluence)
- [Notion](notion)
- [GitHub Wiki](gh-wiki)
- [GitBook](gitbook)
- [WikiJS](wiki-js)
- Git-based Headless CMS (e.g. [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap) and [Tina.io](git-cms-tina))
- API-based Headless CMS (e.g. [Strapi](strapi) and [Directus](directus))

## Decision Outcome <!-- REQUIRED -->

Chosen option: "{option 1}", because {justification. e.g., only option which meets k.o. criterion decision driver | which satisfies x condition | ... }.

### Positive Consequences <!-- OPTIONAL -->

- {e.g., improved performance on quality metric, new capability enabled, ...}
- ...

### Negative Consequences <!-- OPTIONAL -->

- {e.g., decreased performance on quality metric, risk, follow-up decisions required, ...}
- ...

## Pros and Cons of the Options <!-- OPTIONAL -->

### Confluence

[Confluence](confluence) is a Software as a Service (SaaS) documentation and collaboration tool offered by Atlassian that organizes content into "spaces" and offers a series of templates and components that can be used to create custom documentation for internal and external stakeholders.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** [$5.75 (standard) or $11 (premium) per user per month](confluence-pricing)
- **Public Access:** Supported, but limited to individual pages or entire spaces
- **Content Review:** Supported through drafts, not enforceable
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Limited third party plugins for automating translation
- **Web Analytics:** [Google Analytics plugin](confluence-ga) available, also native analytics with premium tier
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **External Contributions:** Only supported in public spaces (without review)

#### Pros

- Relatively user friendly for non-technical users
- Supports a wide variety of media and page content
- Supports drafts, which allow edits to be made without publishing
- Supports page history and comparison of previous versions
- Limited support for public pages and spaces
- Minimimal ongoing maintenance costs due to SaaS hosting
- Most affordable per user cost for a given tier of features

#### Cons

- Does not support a formal review process for drafts before they can be published
- Supports fewer content types than Notion, especially in terms of structured data
- Content can only be made public at the level of an individual page or an entire space
- Content API is limited in capability and less intuitive than Notion API
- No direct support for internationalization and localization
- Closed source proprietary tool
- Data is controlled by Confluence, only accessible via API

### Notion

[Notion](notion) is a Software as a Service (SaaS) documentation and collaboration tool that also allows users to add structured and semi-structured content to pages. Because Notion offers a fully-featured API for reading and managing content, it also has a robust set of community integrations that extend Notion's core functionality.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** [$8 (pro) or $15(business) per user per month](notion-pricing)
- **Public Access:** Supported, but oriented around individual pages
- **Content Review:** Not supported
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Third-party beta plugin for translation
- **Web Analytics:** TODO
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **External Contributions:** Supported in app (without review)

#### Pros

- Relatively user friendly for non-technical users
- Allows publishing pages to the web for external user access
- Supports the widest variety of page content and media
- Supports public comments and edits in the app
- Minimimal ongoing maintenance costs due to SaaS hosting
- Exposes wiki content via an API
- Robust plugin and add-on community

#### Cons

- Slightly more complicated interface than Confluence
- Pages published to the web aren't organized as clearly as public pages in GitBook
- No content review process, all changes and comments are published automatically
- No direct support for internationalization and localization
- Page history is limited to 30 (pro) or 90 (business) days
- Closed source proprietary tool
- Data is controlled by Notion, only accessible via API

### GitHub Wiki

[GitHub Wiki](gh-wiki) is a free feature for public repositories that allows maintainers of the repository to host documents and other content that isn't stored directly within the repository itself.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** Free for public repositories
- **Public Access:** Supported by default
- **Content Review:** TODO
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** TODO
- **Web Analytics:** TODO
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **Data Access:** TODO

#### Pros

- TODO

#### Cons

- TODO

### GitBook

[GitBook](gitbook) is a Software as a Service (SaaS) platform for creating and managing public documentation for a project. GitBook prioritizes version control and collaboration by offering first class support for reviewing and merging content changes. It has become a common documentation and wiki tool for many open source projects.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** SaaS
- **Pricing:** [Free (open source projects)](gitbook-oss) or [$6.70 (plus) per user per month](gitbook-pricing)
- **Public Access:** Supported by default
- **Content Review:** Supported by default
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Native support with [page collections and variants](gitbook-i18n)
- **Web Analytics:** [Google Analytics integration](gitbook-ga) available
- **Open Source Status:** Propietary
- **Data Access:** TODO

#### Pros

- Relatively friendly for non-technical users
- Most robust content review process across all wikis, enforceable on a page-by-page basis
- Public spaces and pages are well organized and searchable
- Supports a wide variety of media and content types
- Supports Google Analytics integration as well as limited native analytics
- Supports external contributions through GitHub PRs
- Supports beginning of type page history and version comparison
- Provides native support for itnernationalization across all pages
- Minimimal ongoing maintenance costs due to SaaS hosting
- Exposes limited API for content and space management
- Data can be synced to GitHub repo owned by HHS

#### Cons

- Slightly more complicated interface than Notion or Confluence
- Supports fewer content types than Notion, especially in terms of structured data
- Content API is limited in capability and less intuitive than Notion API
- External users cannot directly comment or suggest changes in the app
- Native web analytics are less robust than Confluence or Notion
- More expensive than Confluence for similar feature set

### Git-based Headless CMS

A "headless" CMS separates the creation and management of web content from the format in which it's displayed for external users. This is in contrast to traditional content management systems like Drupal or WordPress. Some headless CMS tools (e.g. [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap) and [Tina.io](git-cms-tina)) use a git-based version control system like GitHub as the backend for storing content generated within the CMS. This file-based content is then rendered as a static site with a Static Site Generator (SSG) like Next.js or Gatsby

#### Details

- **Hosting:** Self-hosted
- **Pricing:** Cost of self hosting
- **Public Access:** TODO
- **Content Review:** TODO
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Depends on static site generator (e.g. [Next.js i18n routing](next-i18n))
- **Web Analytics:** Google analytics must be manually added to the resulting website
- **Open Source Status:** Open Source options (e.g. [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap) and [Tina.io](git-cms-tina))
- **External Contributions:** Supported through GitHub

#### Pros

- TODO

#### Cons

- TODO

### API-based Headless CMS

A "headless" CMS separates the creation and management of web content from the format in which it's displayed for external users. This is in contrast to traditional content management systems like Drupal or WordPress. Some headless CMS tools (e.g. [Strapi](strapi) and [Directus](directus)) use a database as the backend for storing content generated within the CMS and expose this content via an API so that it can be rendered as a static site with a Static Site Generator (SSG) like Next.js or Gatsby.

#### Details

- **Hosting:** Self-hosted or SaaS
- **Pricing:** Free for self-hosted ([Strapi](strapi-pricing-self)) or $99/mo for SaaS ([Strapi](strapi-pricing-cloud) and [Directus](directus-pricing-cloud))
- **Public Access:** TODO
- **Content Review:** TODO
- **Supported Media:** TODO
- **I18n:** Depends on static site generator (e.g. [Next.js i18n routing](next-i18n))
- **Web Analytics:** Google analytics must be manually added to the resulting website
- **Open Source Status:** Open Source options (e.g. [Strapi](strapi) and [Directus](directus))
- **External Contributions:** TODO

#### Pros

- TODO

#### Cons

- TODO

## Links <!-- OPTIONAL -->

- [Comms Tooling Milestone](milestone)
- [Confluence](confluence)
  - [Confluence Pricing](confluence-pricing)
  - [Confluence Permissions](confluence-permissions)
  - [Confluence Google Analytics](confluence-ga)
  - [Confluence Public Spaces](confluence-public-spaces)
  - [Confluence Public Pages](confluence-public-pages)
- [Notion](notion)
  - [Notion Pricing](notion-pricing)
  - [Notion Internationalization](notion-i18n)
  - [Notion Pricing](notion-pricing)
  - [Notion Internationalization](notion-i18n)
- [GitHub Wiki](gh-wiki)
- [GitBook](gitbook)
  - [GitBook Pricing](gitbook-pricing)
  - [GitBook Open Source Pricing](gitbook-oss)
  - [GitBook Internationalization](gitbook-i18n)
  - [GitBook Google Analytics](gitbook-ga)
- [Decap CMS](git-cms-decap)
- [Tina CMS](git-cms-tina)
- [Next Internatioanlization](next-i18n)
- [Strapi](strapi)
  - [Strapi Cloud Pricing](strapi-pricing-cloud)
  - [Strapi Self Hosted Pricing](strapi-pricing-self)
- [Directus](directus)
  - [Directus Cloud Pricing](directus-pricing-cloud)

[milestone]: ../milestones/individual_milestones/communication_platforms.md
<!-- Confluence links -->
[confluence]: https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence
[confluence-pricing]: https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/pricing
[confluence-public-spaces]: https://confluence.atlassian.com/doc/make-a-space-public-829076202.html
[confluence-public-pages]: https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/share-content-externally-with-public-links/
[confluence-ga]: https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1216936/google-analytics-in-confluence?tab=pricing&hosting=cloud
[confluence-permissions]: https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Confluence-questions/Let-users-to-edit-but-restrict-for-publishing-changes-without/qaq-p/945993
<!-- Notion links -->
[notion]: https://www.notion.so
[notion-pricing]: https://www.notion.so/pricing
[notion-i18n]: https://store.crowdin.com/notion
<!-- GitHub Wiki links -->
[gh-wiki]: https://docs.github.com/en/communities/documenting-your-project-with-wikis/about-wikis
<!-- GitBook links -->
[gitbook]: https://www.gitbook.com/
[gitbook-pricing]: https://www.gitbook.com/pricing
[gitbook-oss]: https://docs.gitbook.com/account-management/plans/apply-for-the-non-profit-open-source-plan#criteria-for-open-source-projects
[gitbook-i18n]: https://docs.gitbook.com/publishing/share/collection-publishing
[gitbook-ga]: https://docs.gitbook.com/product-tour/integrations/google-analytics/configure
<!-- Wiki.js links -->
[wiki-js]: https://js.wiki/
<!-- Git-based CMS links -->
[git-cms-decap]: https://decapcms.org/
[git-cms-tina]: https://tina.io/
[next-i18n]: https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization
<!-- API-based CMS links -->
[strapi]: https://strapi.io
[strapi-pricing-cloud]: https://strapi.io/pricing-cloud
[strapi-pricing-self]: https://strapi.io/pricing-self-hosted
[directus]: https://directus.io
[directus-pricing-cloud]: https://directus.io/pricing/cloud/
