documentation/milestones/milestone_template.md, before:

# {Milestone name}

| Field           | Value                                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| Document Status | [One of: Draft, Final Draft, Completed ] |
| Epic Link       | TODO: Add Link                           |
| Epic Dashboard  | TODO: Add Link                           |
| Target Release  | TODO: Add Date                           |
| Product Owner   | TODO: Add Name                           |
| Document Owner  | TODO: Add Name                           |
| Lead Developer  | TODO: Add Name                           |
| Lead Designer   | TODO: Add Name                           |


## Short description
<!-- Required -->

{1-2 sentences describing milestone at a high-level}

## Goals

### Business description & value
<!-- Required -->

{3-4 sentences that describe why this milestone is critical to the project}

### User Stories
<!-- Required -->

- As a **{type of user 1}**, I want to:
  - {perform action 1}, so that {goal or motivation for action}
  - {perform action 2}, so that {goal or motivation for action}
- As a **{type of user 2}**, I want to:
  - {perform action 1}, so that {goal or motivation for action}
  - {perform action 2}, so that {goal or motivation for action}

## Technical description

### {Optional Sub-deliverable}
<!-- Optional -->

{List reqiurements specific to this sub-deliverable, options to consider, etc.}

### Definition of done
<!-- Required -->

- [ ] [to be added]
- [ ] Code is deployed to `main` & PROD
- [ ] Services are live in PROD (may be behind feature flag)
- [ ] Metrics are published in PROD.
- [ ] Translations are live in PROD (if necessary)

### Proposed metrics for measuring goals/value/definition of done
<!-- Required -->

1. {Metric 1}

### Destination for live updating metrics
<!-- Optional -->

## Planning

### Assumptions & dependencies
<!-- Optional -->

What capabilities / milestones do we expect to be in place at the beginning of work
on this milestone?

- [ ] [to be added]

Are there any notable capabilities / milestones do NOT we expect to be in place at the
beginning of work on this milestone?

- [ ] [to be added]

### Open questions
<!-- Optional -->

- [ ] [to be added]

### Not doing
<!-- Optional -->

The following work will *not* be completed as part of this milestone:

1. [to be added]

## Integrations

### Translations
<!-- Optional -->

Does this milestone involve delivering any content that needs translation?

If so, when will English-language content be locked? Then when will translation be
started and completed?

### Services going into PROD for the first time
<!-- Optional -->

This can include services going into PROD behind a feature flag that is not turned on.

1. [to be added]

### Services being integrated in PROD for the first time
<!-- Optional -->

Are there multiple services that are being connected for the first time in PROD?

1. [to be added]

### Data being shared publicly for the first time
<!-- Optional -->

Are there any fields being shared publicly that have never been shared in PROD before?

1. [to be added]

### Security considerations
<!-- Optional -->

Are there any security vulnerabilities that need to be addressed as part of this milestone?

1. [to be added]

Commit message:

fix(milestone): Incorporates PR feedback in template
- Makes destination for live updating metrics required
- Makes all of the sections in Integrations required
- Updates language for Security Considerations

documentation/milestones/milestone_template.md, after:

# {Milestone name}

| Field           | Value                                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| Document Status | [One of: Draft, Final Draft, Completed ] |
| Epic Link       | TODO: Add Link                           |
| Epic Dashboard  | TODO: Add Link                           |
| Target Release  | TODO: Add Date                           |
| Product Owner   | TODO: Add Name                           |
| Document Owner  | TODO: Add Name                           |
| Lead Developer  | TODO: Add Name                           |
| Lead Designer   | TODO: Add Name                           |


## Short description
<!-- Required -->

{1-2 sentences describing milestone at a high-level}

## Goals

### Business description & value
<!-- Required -->

{3-4 sentences that describe why this milestone is critical to the project}

### User Stories
<!-- Required -->

- As a **{type of user 1}**, I want to:
  - {perform action 1}, so that {goal or motivation for action}
  - {perform action 2}, so that {goal or motivation for action}
- As a **{type of user 2}**, I want to:
  - {perform action 1}, so that {goal or motivation for action}
  - {perform action 2}, so that {goal or motivation for action}

## Technical description

### {Optional Sub-deliverable}
<!-- Optional -->

{List reqiurements specific to this sub-deliverable, options to consider, etc.}

### Definition of done
<!-- Required -->

- [ ] [to be added]
- [ ] Code is deployed to `main` & PROD
- [ ] Services are live in PROD (may be behind feature flag)
- [ ] Metrics are published in PROD.
- [ ] Translations are live in PROD (if necessary)

### Proposed metrics for measuring goals/value/definition of done
<!-- Required -->

1. {Metric 1}

### Destination for live updating metrics
<!-- Required -->

## Planning

### Assumptions & dependencies
<!-- Optional -->

What capabilities / milestones do we expect to be in place at the beginning of work
on this milestone?

- [ ] [to be added]

Are there any notable capabilities / milestones do NOT we expect to be in place at the
beginning of work on this milestone?

- [ ] [to be added]

### Open questions
<!-- Optional -->

- [ ] [to be added]

### Not doing
<!-- Optional -->

The following work will *not* be completed as part of this milestone:

1. [to be added]

## Integrations

### Translations
<!-- Required -->

Does this milestone involve delivering any content that needs translation?

If so, when will English-language content be locked? Then when will translation be
started and completed?

### Services going into PROD for the first time
<!-- Required -->

This can include services going into PROD behind a feature flag that is not turned on.

1. [to be added]

### Services being integrated in PROD for the first time
<!-- Required -->

Are there multiple services that are being connected for the first time in PROD?

1. [to be added]

### Data being shared publicly for the first time
<!-- Required -->

Are there any fields being shared publicly that have never been shared in PROD before?

1. [to be added]

### Security considerations
<!-- Required -->

Does this milestone expose any new attack vectors or expand the attack surface of the product? 

If so, how are we addressing these risks?

1. [to be added]
