documentation/deliverables/individual_deliverables/milestone_template_published.md, before:

# Milestone template published

## Goals

### Business description & value

By sharing our drafts of a milestone template, as well as drafts of initial milestones, we enable the team to stay coordinated around goals, priority order of goals, progress on delivering against those goals, awareness of dependencies.

By sharing these publicly, they're accessible to all project team members as well as the ecosystem of open source contributors and other interested parties.

### Technical description

Publish the first draft of a milestone template with fields and descriptions of what those fields mean in an openly-accessible place (such as Github or a public wiki).

Also publish initial list of milestones.

Explore different options for this, such as:

* Github
* Public wiki (Confluence or other wiki software)
* Others?

Key criteria are that the tool must be very easy to use for both engineering/IT-familiar users as well as users less experienced with technology.

### Definition of done

- [ ] A self-described non-technical user can learn to edit the milestone document in less than 30 minutes.
- [ ] All template and drafts are accessible publicly.
- [ ] Everyone working on the project knows where the milestone template and drafts are.
- [ ] Integrate Google Analytics or similar tool into milestone pages.

### Proposed metrics for measuring goals/value/definition of done

1. Percent of milestones that are accessible publicly (note: this should remain constant at 100%)
2. Number of unique contributors to milestone documents, total
   * How to measure this and deploy the measure live?
3. Number of unique contributors to milestone documents, external members (not HHS or employed by HHS) only
   * How to measure this and deploy the measure live?
4. Number of total page visits to milestone documents

### Destination for live updating metrics

Not yet sure.

## Planning

### Assumptions & dependencies

What capabilities / milestones do we expect to be in place at the beginning of work
on this milestone?

- [ ] Communications platforms

Are there any notable capabilities / milestones do NOT we expect to be in place at the
beginning of work on this milestone?

- [x] None

Commit message:

refactor: Updates references to milestone in docs Replaces `milestone` with `deliverable` throughout the docs

documentation/deliverables/individual_deliverables/milestone_template_published.md, after:

# Deliverable template published

## Goals

### Business description & value

By sharing our drafts of a deliverable template, as well as drafts of initial deliverables, we enable the team to stay coordinated around goals, priority order of goals, progress on delivering against those goals, awareness of dependencies.

By sharing these publicly, they're accessible to all project team members as well as the ecosystem of open source contributors and other interested parties.

### Technical description

Publish the first draft of a deliverable template with fields and descriptions of what those fields mean in an openly-accessible place (such as Github or a public wiki).

Also publish initial list of deliverables.

Explore different options for this, such as:

* Github
* Public wiki (Confluence or other wiki software)
* Others?

Key criteria are that the tool must be very easy to use for both engineering/IT-familiar users as well as users less experienced with technology.

### Definition of done

- [ ] A self-described non-technical user can learn to edit the deliverable document in less than 30 minutes.
- [ ] All template and drafts are accessible publicly.
- [ ] Everyone working on the project knows where the deliverable template and drafts are.
- [ ] Integrate Google Analytics or similar tool into deliverable pages.

### Proposed metrics for measuring goals/value/definition of done

1. Percent of deliverables that are accessible publicly (note: this should remain constant at 100%)
2. Number of unique contributors to deliverable documents, total
   * How to measure this and deploy the measure live?
3. Number of unique contributors to deliverable documents, external members (not HHS or employed by HHS) only
   * How to measure this and deploy the measure live?
4. Number of total page visits to deliverable documents

### Destination for live updating metrics

Not yet sure.

## Planning

### Assumptions & dependencies

What capabilities / deliverables do we expect to be in place at the beginning of work
on this deliverable?

- [ ] Communications platforms

Are there any notable capabilities / deliverables do NOT we expect to be in place at the
beginning of work on this deliverable?

- [x] None
