documentation/deliverables/README.md, before:

# Introduction to this directory

This directory contains information about our milestones for the modernization project.

[The product roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/HHS/projects/12) contains brief descriptions of upcoming milestones. They are grouped into sections. Within sections, they are roughly presented in approximate priority order, but not in firm priority order.

The milestones are also graphed in the [dependency diagram](./milestone_dependency_diagram.mmd). This diagram is rendered using [Mermaid.js](https://mermaid.js.org/).

Some milestones below have full definitions that are defined on standalone pages in the [individual_milestones](./individual_milestones/) directory. These will have links underneath their name that take you to their full description on another page.

Other milestones in the short descriptions page are not yet groomed and prepared enough to have milestone descriptions. These have short summaries underneath them. Eventually, when they are getting closer to starting execution, these short descriptions will be replaced by defining them according to the [Milestone Template](./milestone_template.md) and creating separate pages for their definitions.

Please note that these are *not* fixed or final milestones. We fully expect they will evolve rapidly based on feedback from others and what we learn as we research, build, and test. All feedback on how these should be changed or adapted is very welcome!

The HHS Grants.gov team is not committing to delivering on any, and certainly not all, of these milestones. These are provided as planning brainstorms rather than a fixed roadmap or promise of delivery of services.

In a separate document, we will track ongoing priorities, clearly defining which milestones are currently being worked on and, for those that are currently being planned or worked, what their priority order is relative to each other. These ongoing priorities will be used to drive a development roadmap and project plan.

If this is your first time engaging with these milestones, we suggest you:

1. Start by reading the milestone short descriptions in [the product roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/HHS/projects/12)
2. Then review the [dependency diagram](./milestone_dependency_diagram.mmd).

Commit message:

refactor: Updates references to milestone in docs Replaces `milestone` with `deliverable` throughout the docs

documentation/deliverables/README.md, after:

# Introduction to this directory

This directory contains information about our deliverables for the modernization project.

[The product roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/HHS/projects/12) contains brief descriptions of upcoming deliverables. They are grouped into sections. Within sections, they are roughly presented in approximate priority order, but not in firm priority order.

The deliverables are also graphed in the [dependency diagram](./deliverable_dependency_diagram.mmd). This diagram is rendered using [Mermaid.js](https://mermaid.js.org/).

Some deliverables below have full definitions that are defined on standalone pages in the [individual_deliverables](./individual_deliverables/) directory. These will have links underneath their name that take you to their full description on another page.

Other deliverables in the short descriptions page are not yet refined enough to have deliverable descriptions. These have short summaries underneath them. Eventually, when they are getting closer to starting execution, these short descriptions will be replaced by defining them according to the [Deliverable Template](./deliverable_template.md) and creating separate pages for their definitions.

Please note that these are *not* fixed or final deliverables. We fully expect they will evolve rapidly based on feedback from others and what we learn as we research, build, and test. All feedback on how these should be changed or adapted is very welcome!

The HHS Grants.gov team is not committing to delivering on any, and certainly not all, of these deliverables. These are provided as planning brainstorms rather than a fixed roadmap or promise of delivery of services.

In a separate document, we will track ongoing priorities, clearly defining which deliverables are currently being worked on and, for those that are currently being planned or worked, what their priority order is relative to each other. These ongoing priorities will be used to drive a development roadmap and project plan.

If this is your first time engaging with these deliverables, we suggest you:

1. Start by reading the deliverable short descriptions in [the product roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/HHS/projects/12)
2. Then review the [dependency diagram](./deliverable_dependency_diagram.mmd).
