documentation/api/formatting-and-linting.md, before:

# Formatting and Linting

## Formatting

Run `make format` to run all of the formatters.

When we run migrations via alembic, we autorun the formatters on the generated files. See [alembic.ini](../../api/src/db/migrations/alembic.ini) for configuration.

### Isort
[isort](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) is used to sort our Python imports. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.isort](../../api/pyproject.toml)

### Black
[black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is used to format our Python code. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.black](../../api/pyproject.toml)

## Linting

Run `make lint` to run all of the linters. It's recommended you run the formatters first as they fix several linting issues automatically.

### Flake
[flake](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) is used to validate the format of our Python code. Configuration options can be found in [setup.cfg](../../api/setup.cfg).

We use two flake extensions:
* [bugbear](https://pypi.org/project/flake8-bugbear/) for finding likely bugs and design problems.
* [alfred](https://pypi.org/project/flake8-alfred/) for finding unsafe/obsolete symbols.

### Mypy
[mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is used to validate and enforce typechecking in python. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.mypy](../../api/pyproject.toml)

Commit message:

[Issue #1587] Switch to use ruff instead of flake8 (#1626)
## Summary
Fixes #1587

### Time to review: __3 mins__

## Changes proposed
Update our API linting to use ruff instead of flake8

## Context for reviewers
[ruff](https://docs.astral.sh/ruff/) is a linter (and formatter although
we aren't using that yet) that does what flake8 does, but does it faster
and with many more configuration options (not yet used). Conveniently,
it even uses the same rules as flake8, so switching just required
adjusting where the configuration was defined.

Note that https://pypi.org/project/flake8-mypy/ was something we
previously had configured, but has been abandoned for years, and I'm not
quite sure what its purpose was (we use mypy - which handles type
linting anyways?).

A few of the ignore rules were modified as we were either ignoring
things that were removed or that just made sense to no longer ignore.

There are many, many rules that we could add, but I wanted to keep this
PR contained to just porting us over, and not reconfiguring things -
turning on every rule gives 3k+ errors, mostly in our tests for things
we wouldn't care about. We likely will need to have different settings
for tests and non-tests if we want to turn on a lot more.

Additionally, while ruff can be used as a formatter, and replace our
usage of isort & black potentially, that would cause a fair number of
changes at the moment (~25 files, mostly commas, line-length and white
space), and I'll leave that as a later follow-up.

documentation/api/formatting-and-linting.md, after:

# Formatting and Linting

## Formatting

Run `make format` to run all of the formatters.

When we run migrations via alembic, we autorun the formatters on the generated files. See [alembic.ini](../../api/src/db/migrations/alembic.ini) for configuration.

### Isort
[isort](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) is used to sort our Python imports. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.isort](../../api/pyproject.toml)

### Black
[black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is used to format our Python code. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.black](../../api/pyproject.toml)

## Linting

Run `make lint` to run all of the linters. It's recommended you run the formatters first as they fix several linting issues automatically.

### Flake
[ruff](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) is used to enforce a set of best practices for our Python code. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.ruff](../../api/pyproject.toml).

### Mypy
[mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is used to validate and enforce typechecking in python. Configuration options can be found in [pyproject.toml - tool.mypy](../../api/pyproject.toml)
