documentation/README.md, before:

# Documentation for the Simpler Grants Project

This folder contains documentation for the Simpler Grants Project.

## Goals

Our vision is for the following to become true:

**_Grants.gov is the simplest, most inclusive, and most gratifying way to find and apply for financial assistance ever built, inside or outside the federal government. Grants.gov helps ensure that no communities are underserved by the federal government_**.

See [goals.md](./goals.md) for more information about the vision and goals for the project.

## Milestones

The [milestones](./milestones) directory contains information about our milestones for the modernization project.

[The product roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/HHS/projects/12) contains brief descriptions of upcoming milestones. The [individual milestones](./milestones/individual_milestones) directory contains detailed descriptions of the project milestones.

## Decisions

Important technical and programmatic decisions are contained in the [decisions](./decisions/) directory, captured using the [architectural decision record format](https://adr.github.io) and written in markdown.

Commit message:

[Issue 681] Renames deliverable folder (#702)
* refactor: Renames milestone folders
Renames `milestones/individual_milestones` to:
`deliverables/individual_deliverables`
* refactor: Renames dependency diagram
* refactor: Updates deliverable spec template
* refactor: Updates references to milestone in docs
Replaces `milestone` with `deliverable` throughout the docs
* refactor: Updates .gitignore

documentation/README.md, after:

# Documentation for the Simpler Grants Project

This folder contains documentation for the Simpler Grants Project.

## Goals

Our vision is for the following to become true:

**_Grants.gov is the simplest, most inclusive, and most gratifying way to find and apply for financial assistance ever built, inside or outside the federal government. Grants.gov helps ensure that no communities are underserved by the federal government_**.

See [goals.md](./goals.md) for more information about the vision and goals for the project.

## Deliverables

The [deliverables](./deliverables) directory contains information about our deliverables for the modernization project.

[The product roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/HHS/projects/12) contains brief descriptions of upcoming deliverables. The [individual deliverables](./deliverables/individual_deliverables) directory contains detailed descriptions of the project deliverables.

## Decisions

Important technical and programmatic decisions are contained in the [decisions](./decisions/) directory, captured using the [architectural decision record format](https://adr.github.io) and written in markdown.
